One of the interesting things, I don't know, do you
remember what George Bush Drive looked like
before we made the street out of it? We got ready to
build that and Mr. Greer, who was a state highway
engineer, gave me $500,000 to build that street
and didn't charge it to my Farm to Market Road
program because he had a love for A&M and he's a
graduate of 1926 or somewhere back there. So I went
to Mr. Rutter and I told him that I had money to
rebuild Jersey Street from Highway 6 over to the
railroad. That's as far as the first part of it
went. This was to take it from two lanes to four
lanes. Well, two lanes from nothing to something.
And that's part of my story. Mr. Rutter called me
and asked me, said, what's going to be your design
on, called it Jersey Street at that time. And I
said, Mr. Rutter, we're going to build four
running lanes, two parking lanes, and a
continuous 16-foot left turn center lane. You
can't do that. I come, you're going to take too much
of my campus. He said, build it like the road over
there by the railroad. And I said, no, sir, we're
not going to build nothing like that. Well, you
think about it some more. I said, that's going to
take an awful lot of the campus. So he called me in
about two, three weeks, and he said, what did you
decide about Jersey Street? And I said, four
running lanes, two parking lanes, and a 16-foot
turn lane. He said, I told you, you got to cut that
down. I said, Mr. Rutter, we're not going to spend
any money out there if we can't build it right. So
the thing rocked along, and he called me about
three or four weeks later, and he said, have you
been talking to any of my board members? I said, Mr.
Rudd, I don't even know any board members. He said,
well, the last board meeting they told me, they
said, when they get ready to build Jersey Street,
don't let them build it too narrow. I said, I don't
know who he was, but he's my friend. So... you see
what we built, and it's not wide enough. But at that
point, then, did he did agree? Oh, yes. Oh, another
thing, he said, they're going to take his soccer
field. You know, the soccer field is where, I
guess, the former student building is now. I said,
you can build a soccer field anywhere on this
campus. And then we got ready to go from the
railroad over to the airport. See, there wasn't
any road there at all. That was a pasture. And we got
the thing laid out, and we were working with a
fellow, but it seemed to me like his name was
Langdon or Langston or something, who was head of
the utilities department out there. And there was
power lines and fence lines and water lines. So we
began to tell him that he had to move a bunch of that
stuff and he was dragging his feet and he wouldn't,
he just wasn't moving. So I called Mr. Rutter and I
said, Mr. Rutter, we can't get any clearance out
there. I said, we got power lines, water lines, and
a bunch of stuff to move. And I said, they're just
dragging their feet. And I said, you wanted that
thing done. He said, well, come out and tell me what
you need. And so I took my resin engineer and went
out there. And he said, just give me a list of what
you want. When you want the power line moved. And I
said, oh, three weeks or whatever we told him. And
water line, sort of the same. And he said, OK, what
else? And I said, that's it. He said, well, I'm
going to Europe. O.D. Butler called me the next
week. And he said, what in the hell did you tell Mr.
Rutter? And I said, well, I just told him we had to
get that stuff moved. He said, he called me and he
said, you get out there and you get that stuff moved
right now. O.D. Butler was moving the fence the
next week. And Haskell, it wasn't any time till he
got that thing, he got that thing clear. He could
move things. And then we got ready to build the West
Loop. And he called me and Fort Albritton and, oh, I
don't know, there was some of the county people.
They had built one little end on the north end of it
from Highway 21 up. The county had built a little
short stretch. And he told me, he said, we want 300
feet around there, so if you ever make it four lane,
we don't have to get additional right of way. And
the university is going to give the county
whatever right of way they need, and pointed to Mr.
Allbritton, and he said, Ford, and you're going to
give what the need down. He owned a bunch of it out
there, about this intersection. You know where
Allbritton, the Linn Co. used to be? Yeah, yeah.
That was Ford Allbritton. Sure, sure. And he owned
then on out where the... And Ford said later, I
didn't know you were gonna put an interchange out
there and we've got the world the right way. But he
told Ford, you're gonna give that. And so he, man,
he could move stuff, I'm not kidding you. Of all the
presidents you have observed, to which one at A&M,
I'm not gonna ask the negative, to which ones would
you give high grades? Which presidents did the
best job? Well, as far as I was concerned, I guess
it'd be Rudder and Williams. That's the two that I
dealt with a whole lot. Give some examples of your
work with Dr. Williams. Well, the first real
encounter I had with him, I
don't know why, but I was out to a football game or
something, or we'd had something before the
football game, and I had my uniform on. And we were
walking along and met a man and woman and two little
kids. And I spoke to those little kids and the
little boy was excited that he got to be a general
officer. And they told Mr. Williams about it for
some reason. I think they knew him or I can't tell
you. And he called me up and complimented me for
stopping and putting my hand on that little boy.
And then we had two or three, there was two or three
other road deals that he was involved with that I
decided that he was a pretty nice fellow to work
with. Now during your day, was there discussion
about moving the railroad? No. See, when I was in
there, it used to be two railroads. And we put them
on one. And that took 20 years. To go over to the west
side of the campus, you had to go up and climb up over
the railroad like this and you couldn't see what
was on the other side because there wasn't much
over there. And that was one of the oldest, we
called it an IPE as a study job that the highway
department had was to get rid of that bad crossing.
And there was an A&M graduate who was the chief
engineer for the Southern Pacific Railroad in
Houston. And he's really the one that got that
thing moved and we were able to put both of them, the
highway department paid for putting those
railroads together and building that underpass.
And he was responsible for that. And so we worked a
long time to get them on one railroad. And I don't
think I'm ever going to see any part of that
railroad moved. I agree with you very much. I know
I'm not going to. You may, but I'm not going to live
that long, I don't think. And I really, Askel, I
really don't think it's as big a problem as a lot of
people think it is.
I agree, I agree. Well, let's see. We added this
after the Aggie, what feelings you carry in your
heart for A&M. What do you hope, let's conclude
with this, what do you hope A&M's future is? What do
you want A&M to be in the future?
Oh, I don't know that bigger is better.
I just hope that A&M can continue to carry the
tradition it's got, have the leadership that is
interested in it progressing and keeping the
great name that it's got now. That's a good
conclusion.